So, now let's talk about query logging
for Route 53.
So, the first one is DNS query logging,
which is going to give you information
about public DNS queries
that the Route 53 Resolver receives.
So, this is applicable only to public hosted zones
and then the logs are sent only to CloudWatch.
So, this is the kind of request you will see in the logs.
You have the log format version, the query timestamp,
the hosted zone ID for your public hosted zone,
the query name, the query type, the response code,
the query protocol, the edge locations are responded,
the Resolver IP address, and the EDNS client subnets.
The other kind of query logging you have
is the Resolver query logging
which is going to log all DNS queries made
within your VPC.
For example, by your EC2 instances,
your Lambda functions, and so on.
Also, from on-premise resources that are going
to be leveraging the Resolver inbound endpoints,
and also anything leveraging the Resolver outbound points.
And finally, whatever is using the Resolver DNS firewall.
So, let's take an example.
We have the Route 53 Resolver and our VPC.
We have an EC2 instance that makes a query to example.com.
Then this is going to be automatically logged
through the Resolver query logging,
and then these logs can be sent to three destinations.
It could be S3 buckets, CloudWatch Logs,
and Kinesis Data Firehose.
Now these configurations of query logging can be shared
with other accounts using AWS Resource Access Manager,
which is called AWS RAM.
So, what does the Resolver query logging look like?
Well, it's a JSON document
which gives you a lot of information such as
the VPC the request was made, the type of query, and so on.
So, what kind of architectures can we build
with the Resolver query logging?
Well, for example
all the DNS logs can be sent into CloudWatch Logs,
from which we can use CloudWatch Logs insights
to find specific data.
Or we can use CloudWatch Contributor insights
to find the most common DNS queries
amongst our CloudWatch logs
and try to understand whether or not we're being attacked,
for example.
Alright, that's it for this lecture.
I hope you liked it,
and I will see you in the next lecture.